(Transcribed by TurboScribe.ai. Go Unlimited to remove this message.)

All right, welcome back to another lesson. And in this lesson, I want to talk about supercharging your launch. So in the previous lesson, we talked about getting reviews and running ads is all you need to achieve great results during launch.

And that's true. But if you have the extra budget and you want to do more than just running Amazon ads and getting reviews, then this is something that you can do as an extra. Okay.

What you can do is you can submit your book to book promotion sites. So what are book promotion sites? Well, it is a huge email list of people who expressed interest in receiving discounted book deals. You basically pay them an upfront fee to have your book featured in their subscribers.

So the benefit of using book promo sites is you gain extra sales and exposure, obviously, because you're blasting your book to this huge email list of people who wants discounted books. So you're going to pick up a ton of sales from those. And by doing so, you will boost your book launch momentum as well as the chance of getting the bestseller badge.

Book promo sites will make it very, very easy for you to boost your BSR and become number one in that category so that you can get that orange bestseller badge, which will then help with additional sales as well because it serves as massive social proof. So there are promo sites for both free books and discounted books. So when you use promo sites, you can use it for free books basically while your book is in that five day free promotion.

Now when you do this, the purpose of doing so is to get a ton more free downloads and build your email list because you're going to get way more free downloads than if you would have used the same promo sites for, you know, discounted books such as when it's at 99 cent. OK, so the purpose of getting a ton more downloads is that hopefully those readers will want your lead magnet and they will end up subscribing to your email list. This is something that we will talk about more in the following modules when we actually start implementing lead magnets and, you know, building an email list.

So for now, if this is your first book and you don't have an email list set up already, then you will be skipping this step because it doesn't apply to you. So what you want to do instead is to use promo sites for paid books. OK, so this is when your book is at 99 cent and you're going through the launch, trying to get as many sales as possible.

That is when you can supercharge that with book promo sites. So the purpose of running book promo sites while the book is at 99 cent obviously is to get a lot of paid purchases to boost your book ranking and your momentum. All right, so this is just one of the many different book promo sites out there.

This is one of the best one called Written Word Media, and they offer a free promo site called Free Booksy. And this applies to when your book is a free, obviously. And there's also Bargain Booksy, which is when your book is on a bargain deal, which most of the time is at 99 cent or a little more than that.

Now, Free Booksy would have different pricing as well as if you use different promo sites, they will all have different list size and different pricing. But just to give you an example, with Bargain Booksy, they have different genres and different categories for nonfiction. It'll be here.

OK, so if you have cookbooks and nutrition, so let's say you have a diet book or a cookbook, then you can promote your book to over 109,000 people for just $30, which is insane. Same as if you have self-help and how-to, you can promote your book to 106,000 people for $35. So that is how it works.

You will pay them this one-time cost, and they will feature your book in their email list of this size. So how do we actually use promo sites to boost the book launch? So in terms of the book launch, this is how the flow is. You will first publish your book.

You will set it on a five-day free promotion, OK? And this is when you're gathering reviews as well. Then your book will be at 99 cent. You will collect as many sales as you can, and then after the launch, you will put it at full price, and you will keep running Amazon ads.

Now you can supercharge this by implementing promo sites. So if you have an email list, once again, if this is your first book, then you will not have an email list set up, so you will ignore this. But if you do have an email list set up, say this is your second book or third book, and you want to gather as many email subscribers as possible, while your book is at a five-day free promotion, you simply book free promo sites.

This will help you get way more downloads, thus way more email subscribers through that. Same as when your book is at 99 cent, you can schedule promo sites to gather a lot more sales. Now Amazon likes to see consistent sales that trends up, OK? So you want to spread out your promo sites over the course of your launch, as well as start with low-tier sites and move up to high-tier sites.

I typically schedule promo sites daily for up to seven to 10 days during my launch. So this is how it will look. Let's say you're doing a 10-day launch, meaning you have a period of 10 days where your book is at 99 cent.

You're going to start with low-tier sites. I'm going to explain what that means. But these are sites that are pretty cheap to book, and it doesn't get you a ton of sales, but that's fine because there's a purpose for every single one.

So you're going to do that for, let's say, three days. Then the next three days, you'll schedule medium-tier sites. These are promo sites that cost a little more, but usually yields a little more results.

So you're going to get more sales. And for the last four days or however long you want to go for, you'll schedule high-tier sites, OK? So these are the most expensive promo sites, but they usually yield the biggest results. By doing so and by spreading it out like this, you're essentially kind of controlling how much sales you get over the course of your launch.

And so your sales will trend upwards like this. As you can see, and essentially you want the last day of your book promotion to be the biggest day and have the most amount of sales. Amazon really likes to see this consistent trend of sales going up rather than, let's say, trends coming down, OK? So this is essentially what we're trying to create with book promo sites.

Obviously, we will be running Amazon ads the whole time because, you know, this is something that we should always do during the book launch. Book promo sites can be an extra thing, but Amazon ads is required. Now, once you're done with your book launch on your last day, hopefully you will have the biggest sale out of your entire book launch period.

Now, obviously, you cannot control this 100 percent, so don't stress about it because it's not a make it or break it thing. Just try and get it. You know, it'll be better if you can.

And the next day you will switch to full price and you will keep running Amazon ads. All right, so this is a book launch checklist that I created for you guys. So we have this quick checklist on what you need and what you want to, you know, keep in mind before you launch a book.

So we have the title, cover content, formatting, description, reviews. And this is the steps for the pre-launch, launch and post-launch. OK, so for the pre-launch, I'm not going to read every single one because we've gone over this in previous lessons.

But definitely feel free to check this every time you launch a book. And then once you're done, you can check it and then go to the next one. OK, so that is how you use it.

And for the launch phase, we have the steps here. We have instructions on what to do during the five day free promotion. And this is when you want to add additional categories.

So while your book is in a five day free promotion, you're most likely not really doing a ton of things, right? You have some downtime while you're waiting for the reviews to come in. So this is when you want to add your book to additional categories once again. And also you want to schedule the paid promo sites.

Now, this is once again optional if you have the budget. And another thing to keep in mind is a lot of the book promo sites, they require you to have at least five reviews. So once you hit five reviews, that's when you want to start booking all these promo sites. 

OK, so as I mentioned, you start with low tier sites for the first two to three days. Now, when I say can stack, that means you can schedule multiple low tier sites on the same day. OK, if you have a higher budget, then you schedule medium tier sites for the next two to three days.

Once again, you can stack this. And for the rest of the period, you want to schedule one high tier site per day for as long as your 99 cent phase lasts. Well, I do say one site per day, but if you have the budget and if there's other promo sites you want to test, feel free to stack it.

That's completely fine, too. OK, and next we have the instructions on the 99 cent paid promotion period. And this is a list of the best book promotion sites.

So obviously this is not a complete list. However, these are the promotion sites that I personally used myself. I've tested every single one and I've compiled them into high tier sites, medium tier sites and low tier sites.

So definitely refer to this. Go ahead and use it. So these are all the high tier sites.

These are the medium tier sites. These are the low tier sites. And I have this proven promo sites that work, which is my go to promo sites.

So every single book launch, I essentially book all of this. These are the promo sites that I use every single time. And finally, down here, we have some potentially good promo sites to test.

So these are the ones that I have not tested yet, but feel free to do so. And if you guys have any new promo sites that's not included here, let me know and we can add it. So just to recap, most promo sites require five reviews minimum for you to submit. 

So that is why you want to wait until you get five reviews. Then you start submitting your books to promo sites. You can stack multiple promo sites per day.

And how much does it cost? Well, I had the price for every single promo site in the list. But if you book all of the promo sites in my go to promo sites section, then it'll cost two hundred and ninety dollars. But obviously you do not have to book every single one.

So once again, this is very, very flexible. Do it if you have the additional budget and for however much you can afford, you can boost your launch with these sites. Now, if you have an attractive book, you should receive hundreds of sales during this period by implementing promo sites.

OK, that is enough sales to become number one in a category and receive your best seller badge. So this helps increase your sales even more due to massive social proof. And it's something that is very, very cool to get.

You can call yourself an Amazon bestselling author. So make sure to take a screenshot if you do get the badge so that you can brag to your friends, family, post it in the Facebook group and just tell everybody about it. So in conclusion, book promo sites are optional and not required to achieve success, but it can help a lot in boosting your launch.

So the goal is to increase sales momentum as well as potentially receiving the best seller badge, which also leads to long term sales. So for your action steps, decide if you want to utilize book promo sites. If you have the extra budget for it, go ahead and schedule those promo sites and I'll see you guys in the next lesson.

(Transcribed by TurboScribe.ai. Go Unlimited to remove this message.)