(Transcribed by TurboScribe.ai. Go Unlimited to remove this message.)

Alright, welcome back to another lesson and in this lesson we're going to do a quick tutorial on creating your author profile. So why create your author profile? Well it's mainly for branding because it looks more professional as well as you can link your other books within the author profile which will increase the chances of people clicking over to check out your author profile, finding your other books and purchasing it. So this is an example of an author profile so you have basically your profile picture, the bio and all your books are linked to it.

So in terms of how to create an author profile, all you have to do is sign into KDP, click on this marketing tab on the top, then come down to author central and you can select the .com store for now and you can obviously set it up for UK, Canada, other stores too but I just do it for .com which is the US one. Alright so once you log in, this is how it looks. So in terms of setting up your author profile, the first thing you want to do is to go to the profile section right here and all you have to do is upload the profile picture right here and add the bio that you created for your author right here and in case you have some photos and videos that you want to add, you can add that in this section and if you do have a website or a blog, you can actually link that right here.

Alright next you want to add your books so all you have to do is come down, click on add a book, search for the title via the name or the ISBN or just your pen name and your book will show up, click on it, add it and you're good to go. So once you do that, it's going to take about a day for KDP to review it but they will approve it and you will have a profile page like this. So as I mentioned before, the bio can be super simple so don't overcomplicate this, okay? Just write who you are, what kind of books you publish and what the readers will learn from your books and obviously if you need inspirations on what to put in the bio, just look at your competition, look at what kind of bio they have and model from that.

So for your action steps, go create your author profile and I'll see you guys in the next video.

(Transcribed by TurboScribe.ai. Go Unlimited to remove this message.)